In this video you're going to make planet earth with different textures and rotations.
So making new EBSCO project by opening up X code Karaite a new project a single the application called
the project Planetes press next and creates.
So like we've always done before the first thing to do is go to the main storyboard and add in a market
scene view to the View Controller such that we can blend three dimensional content into a camera view
of the real world.
Pin it to the edges of the super view.
The constraints by pinning to the bottom top leading and trailing space add the four constraints open
up the assistant editor and link the market scene get a view to the Wii controller with an idea.
Let's see you
import a r get close.
The assistant editor.
And back to the Wii controller like we've always done before.
Declare a configuration constant equal to a world tracking session configuration memory that world tracking
is used to detect the device's orientation and position at all times.
This is important if you want to position nodes relative to the device and make sure the scene runs
a session with that configuration by writing self does scene view.
Does Sasson run configuration debug options by running self.
Does scene view debug options as equal to an array type of device options such that it shows the world
origin and shows the feature Kwan's.
Everytime we run the the last step is a step.
We've always done before and it's to go to the food up left and right the property privacy camera uses
description.
This displays an alert to user asking him permission to enable the camera.
Add a descriptive message that alerts saying you need the camera to display cool our contents so this
is nothing new.
We've done all of these before.
It's all boilerplate stuff.
If you were confused by any of these steps please make sure to revisit the first lecture in the Getting
Started section.
All right we're going to make planet Earth and message Tardio.
So in the Wii controller override you did appear and inside of it make in Melwood called Earth node
is equal to C.A. so we remember from before that a node is just a position in space with no shape dimension
or color.
And since planet Earth has a spherical shape give the node A geometry of a sphere as C and sphere with
a radius of zero point two meters 20 centimeters.
Now I said before that the fuse is the color of light spread across the entire surface of the known
material but it can also refer to the texture that spread across the node and Tarryall so right.
Earth geometry first material first material is the appearance of the surface dark diffuse diffuse is
the color texture spread across the surface.
The contents is equal to.
So we need to get a texture of planet earth such that it spreads across the surface of the sphere.
So I found a site which has cool textures called Solar System scope dot com slash textures.
The link is in your resources folder and for some reason the link doesn't work.
By the time you're watching this video I have attached all the images you need in the Resources folder.
So this is not texture is what we need to spread across our sphere.
So download the texture once a download show it in the Finder minimized the following drubbed school
project and as such.
Make a new image set called Earth Day
and drag the image to the Earth Day.
Ask that folder now back to the view controller set.
Did the fuse equal to the Earth Day toucher.
So what will happen is that this flat surface of the earth will wrap around the sphere and node such
that it covers the whole surface.
Now position the No.
1 meter away from the world origin behind these axes by running earth.
That position is equal to a three dimensional vector.
Leave the x and y as zero so horizontally and vertically centered to the origin and put a 1 meter away
behind these and X and the no to the seen you by running self doesn't view.
Does seem that route node got child node or then run the up.
So here is planet earth.
If you look around you'll notice that the map texture wrap it's up perfectly around the sphere and that
2 x code should add animations to the planet so that it rotates horizontally around the y axis.
So right left action is equal to C-n action.
Rotate by.
So it takes arguments x y ends as well as any duration.
You don't want to rotate it around the x axis.
Remember that rotating around the x axis gives any vertical rotation so leave that as zero where you
want to rotate it horizontally around the y axis 360 degrees.
But this argument takes in radians Sulak before.
Remember this extension.
We used that before to convert degrees to radians.
It's in your resources folder so make sure to copy and for the why of Alan you not.
All you have to do is write 360 degrees to readings and convert it to ACG flow.
Since that is the argument type for this.
Leave these out as zeros since we don't want to rotate the earth clockwise.
If you're confused about rotations make sure to revisit the rotation lecture and the getting started
section.
And we're going to give an age of 8 seconds which refers to how fast the Earth will rotate 360 degrees
horizontally.
So in this case it will take 8 seconds to rotate fully around itself which I found to be a good default
duration.
Now this is your first time seeing as seeing options.
You've done Euler angles Euler angles were a way to specify how you wanted your note to be rotated.
This is basically the same thing as the options is simply an animation costs which is used to animate
the change in structure or display of a node.
In this case all it's doing is animating the nodes rotation across the y axis but the rotation principle
is the exact same as before except this time we have animation.
So lastly make sure you run the action by writing Earth run auction auction.
This applies the horizontal rotation to the earth run the and an enemy it's a rotation 360 degrees for
eight seconds.
It should stop soon.
And it stops now.
I want the rotation to last forever.
To do that right left forever is equal to CN option dot repeat for our and the auction we're going to
repeat forever is the fall.
So this line of code makes sure that this rotation animation never stops.
And instead of running the normal auction run the forever action run.
And if you keep this on for however long you want you should notice the planet never stops rotating.
Now I'm not going to run this up forever but you get the point.
All right.
Now for the specular texture go to the website and remember that specular is the color of light that's
reflected from the note this texture.
When wrapped around the sphere and would made sure that land doesn't reflect any light whereas any water
is.
Our oceans do reflect light.
So there are many types of textures.
The first one we used was made to use texture and it's made so that it can wrap around the entire surface
of a node with its contents.
So it spreads its contents across the entire node and covers a specular texture however is made specifically
such that it controls how light is reflected on a node.
So download the texture show it in the Finder and we're going to drag this into our tax code project
by first making our image assets earth specular
minimize X code and drag this BNZ file right into your Earth specular ASJ.
Now you did appear earth geometry dust first material ta specular the contents is equal to earth.
Specular So the spectacular behavior of this node will act such that only water can reflect.
Let's remember from before that the only way for specular to work is that you need a light source.
So in vino low self that seems you got auto enables default lighting is the code.
True if you forgot this line of code illuminates it light in all directions of the scene you run the
app and notice the light doesn't reflect when it reaches land but only reflects when there is water.
This is very cool.
Back to the website there is another cool feature for us.
You can add clouds to the earth texture is an image and texture.
So as a review the first touch we used easy to use texture such that we want this texture to simply
wrap around the surface so that it can show and spread all of its contents.
The next one we used was a specular capture.
We had this texture wrap around the known such that it controls how light is reflected.
The result was that light only reflects if there is water.
And now this is an emission texture emission.
It simply adds color or content to a surface.
We're going to add we're going to emit clouds to our surface so download the texture show it in the
Finder and we're going to make a new image assets into our ex-coach projects.
And the image set and call it Earth the mission go back to the finder and drag the clouds image into
our mission folder.
So back to the Wii controller.
Right.
Done geometry tough first material that you mention the contents is equal to earth.
The mission the mission defines the content emitted by each point of the surface.
So by wrapping the stuff through the earth know is going to emit clouds and each point of the surface
that has run out.
And this looks really nice.
We track the emission texture to our known and it emits clouds in every point of the texture that has
a cloud.
Now lastly we should look at the normal texture.
So back to the website the normal texture simply refers to the geometrical shape of each point in the
surface.
So in some parts of the world where there are mountains this texture makes sure that it has a specific
orientation and shape to that point in the map so that you can better observe the detail in the lens.
So download it show it in the Finder minimize the device and in your assets folder and the earth normal
image as
this project in and the normal map right into your assets folder and back to the Wii controller site
earth geometry.
The first material that normal dock contents is equal to Earth normal.
So this texture will wrap around the Earth node and adds three dimensional detail to our and know that
it can show mountains and other details in the map.
So we're on the and notice how in detail the physical features of the land are.
That's it for this video in the next one we're going to start adding the rest of the planet's.